Docs: Adjust the Viewports, Backgrounds and Toolbars for Storybook 9 (#31145)
storybookjs/storybook: docs/essentials/viewport.mdx

  title: Viewport
---

The viewport toolbar item allows you to adjust the dimensions of the iframe your story is rendered in. It makes it easy to develop responsive UIs.

<Video src="../_assets/essentials/addon-viewports-optimized.mp4" />

## Configuration

> Out of the box, the Viewport module offers you a standard set of viewports that you can use. If you want to change the default set of viewports, you can configure your own viewports with the `viewport` [parameter](../writing-stories/parameters.mdx) in your [`.storybook/preview.js|ts`](../configure/index.mdx#configure-story-rendering).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Out of the box, the viewport toolbar item offers you a standard set of viewports that you can use. If you want to change the default set of viewports, you can configure your own viewports with the `viewport` [parameter](../writing-stories/parameters.mdx) in your [`.storybook/preview.js|ts`](../configure/index.mdx#configure-story-rendering).
```

You can define the available viewports using the [`options` property](#options) and set the initial viewport using the `initialGlobals` property:

{/* prettier-ignore-start */}

<CodeSnippets path="addon-viewport-options-in-preview.md" />

{/* prettier-ignore-end */}

### Use a detailed set of devices

> By default, the Viewport module will use a minimal set of viewports, which enables you to test your UI in common responsive scenarios. These are also available in the [`MINIMAL_VIEWPORTS` export](#minimal_viewports) and include the following devices:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the viewport toolbar item will use a minimal set of viewports, which enables you to test your UI in common responsive scenarios. These are also available in the [`MINIMAL_VIEWPORTS` export](#minimal_viewports) and include the following devices:
```

* Previous viewport: <kbd>alt</kbd> + <kbd>shift</kbd> + <kbd>v</kbd>
* Reset viewport: <kbd>alt</kbd> + <kbd>control</kbd> + <kbd>v</kbd>

### Globals

This module contributes the following globals to Storybook, under the `viewport` namespace:

#### `value`

Type: `string`

When set, the viewport is applied and cannot be changed using the toolbar. Must match the key of one of the [available viewports](#options).

#### `isRotated`

Type: `boolean`

When true, the viewport applied will be rotated 90°, e.g., from portrait to landscape orientation.

### Parameters

This module contributes the following [parameters](../writing-stories/parameters.mdx) to Storybook, under the `viewport` namespace:

> #### `disable`

Reviewer: TODO: Check that this is truly `disable` and not `disabled` (as it used to be).

Reviewer: Confirmed: https://github.com/storybookjs/storybook/blob/next/code/core/src/viewport/types.ts#L43
